# Hash table

Time Complexity:
look-up: O(1)
insertion: O(1)

# Description
A hash table provides constant time O(1) run time for look-up & insertion.
Simply put, a hash table is an array with a hash function.

# Implementation
A hash table needs to have the following methods / properties:
- insert(key, value)
- get(key)
- delete(key)

# Collisions
Collisions are typically handled by one of two basic methods -- chaining and open addressing.

## Chaining

Hash collision handling by separate chaining, uses an additional data structure, preferrably linked list for dynamic allocation, into buckets.
To find an item we first go to the bucket and then compare keys. This is a popular method, and if a list of links is used the hash never fills up. The cost for get(k) is on average O(n) where n is the number of keys in the bucket, total number of keys be N.
The problem with separate chaining is that the data structure can grow with out bounds.

## Open Addressing

Open addressing does not introduce any new data structure. If a collision occurs then we look for availability in the next spot generated by an algorithm. Open Addressing is generally used where storage space is a restricted, i.e. embedded processors. Open addressing not necessarily faster then separate chaining.

# JS Built In:
JavaScript has a built-in Map() function, which is fundamentally a hash table.

You can create a new hash table using the new operator:
``` JavaScript
let myMap = new Map();
```

Map() has the following methods:
- clear() - Removes all key/value pairs from the Map object.
- delete(key) - Returns true if an element in the Map object existed and has been removed, or false if the element does not exist.
- entries() - Returns a new Iterator object that contains an array of [key, value] for each element in the Map object in insertion order.
- forEach(callbackFn) - Calls callbackFn once for each key-value pair present in the Map object, in insertion order.
- get(key) - Returns the value associated to the key, or undefined if there is none.
- has(key) - Returns a boolean asserting whether a value has been associated to the key in the Map object or not.
- keys() - Returns a new Iterator object that contains the keys for each element in the Map object in insertion order.
- set(key, value) - Sets the value for the key in the Map object. Returns the Map object.
- values() - Returns a new Iterator object that contains the values for each element in the Map object in insertion order.

## Practice Problems
- [Leet Code - Hash Table Problems](https://leetcode.com/problemset/all/?topicSlugs=hash-table)
- [Hacker Rank - Cracking the Coding Interview](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/tutorials/cracking-the-coding-interview)
